Namo Buddha Shakyamuni.
Greetings to all esteemed Dharma friends. I, Han Quan, would like to
share about the benefits of this retreat.
Dear Dharma friends,
the purpose of the Master in opening this
retreat is to
benefit the participants. Secondly, to work
together with
families to educate
children according to Buddhist teachings.
Thirdly, to make this society better.
These are the purposes of the
teachers organizing this retreat because human beings are the
main factor determining society.
And in all
learning, the learning that brings self-awareness
to people is the
most effective. If parents educate their children but the
children lack self-awareness, then
all the parents' education
becomes useless, isn't that right, esteemed Dharma friends? The same goes for
schools that educate
students, but the students...  Without
self-awareness, education is useless in
this society. Education that
doesn't lead to self-awareness—that person can't consciously
do everything on their own—is
also useless. Only the
teachings of Buddha can make people self-
aware. Because it has the nature of
enlightenment, dear fellow practitioners, you understand what should and should
n't be done. Only
Buddhism can do
this, dear fellow practitioners.
Because Buddhist education is far removed from materialism,
Buddhist education dispels human greed,
Buddhist education carries a
beautiful moral education that fosters self-awareness. Do
you understand, dear fellow practitioners? Therefore, this is
very important for children, even at a
young age. Dear fellow practitioners, consider yourselves,
even before you came to know Buddhism, did you
consciously do good deeds? We
never consciously did
good deeds, did we? The mind is still too rigid. Let me give you an
example: two friends are good to each other, but
what is the spirit of being good to each other? There is give and
take.  Isn't that right? If there's a departure and
no return, then there's no suffering.
This suffering isn't sadness; it
gives rise to
evil. Isn't that right, esteemed fellow practitioners? It's the
same in all relationships:
family, colleagues,
friends. Everywhere,
it's the same. Every good deed has a
purpose. I let go of something and
I gain
something. Only in our Buddhism is that when
I do a good deed,
blessings will come to me. This
leads to self-awareness in people doing
good, and this is extremely important
for the younger generation. Because
when young people just sow a little karma
in their hearts, they
can control their actions, control
their lives, overcome all
obstacles and difficulties in life. Is
n't that right, esteemed fellow practitioners? They can overcome
everything. That's why, knowing
this and seeing this, the Master and the monks are
striving to organize retreats and
dedicate themselves to sentient beings. That's why I'm saying this
for you, esteemed practitioners.  You see that the
masters and monks have a heart for the
country and for each individual
family, wishing for the well-being of others, and providing
support—a heart of
immense compassion, dear fellow
practitioners. I want you to see and
understand this, so that
if we have the opportunity, we can do our best. Do you
understand
this clearly? Because this is about educating our children.
Firstly, for our family, secondly, for our
country, for
our peace—it's about educating people. It's the core, is
n't it? So here, the mind-
reading of Han Guan is sharing with you, dear fellow
practitioners, the benefits for the children in their
spiritual practice. That is the common benefit for the family, for
society, and now for the children themselves. I
also said that if the children
attain even a little enlightenment, they will benefit
immensely. Because in
this life, if they encounter any difficulties,
where will they go? They will follow wrong views,
right, dear fellow practitioners? Isn't that right?
Delusion and wrong views will lead them astray.  It's painful,
but it only needs to happen once in
its life: to go to the temple, to read
a sutra on karma, to listen to
the venerable monks' teachings. So,
whatever happens in its life, it will think
about karma, right?
It will control
its behavior better. Therefore, the
students who come to practice Buddhism in Laos
also get to learn a little about karma. They
learn karma to live
more filial lives, to abandon evil, to do good, to stay away from
unwholesome actions.
Then, blessings will arise
for them. And if blessings arise in the next life, they will
also arise in this life.
Therefore, the temple will
send a prayer to the parents and the
students participating in this retreat.
Before going, the students will pray at
home,
hoping that the merits will be dedicated to
them so that they may have the health to
participate in the retreat fully, practice
all the regulations of the retreat, and
develop a pure heart.
Reverence for the Buddha, reverence for the Three Jewels,
gives rise to a heart that reveres for the Buddha, reverence for the Three Jewels. This merit is
dedicated to the health of the
children, to their wisdom, to
changing their
character, to cultivating goodness and faith in the Three Jewels, and to the law of cause and
effect. This will lead to good studies,
successful careers, and future
benefits for the family, society, and the
community. Reverence for the Three Jewels, dear fellow practitioners, is
also important. Parents should inform their children at home so they can
participate in meditation retreats. They will
daily express gratitude to the Buddha and the Sangha, so
they will have merit in this life, leading to
advancement in their work, careers, and studies. When they
go to the temple, they should prepare themselves
mentally, understanding the law of cause and effect.
Therefore, the temple has many
places where they can respectfully bow to the Buddha
and the Sangha.
Parents should also remind their
children, for example, that when they go to the temple, they should
wholeheartedly revere the Buddha, bow to the Buddha,
praise the Buddha, praise the Dharma, and praise the
Sangha.  After the retreat, the
children will return home with increased merit. They should
dedicate this merit to their studies and
future careers, so that everything will
be smooth and successful. Therefore, with a mindful and contemplative attitude, we sincerely
hope that
our esteemed parents will
prepare their children mentally, understanding the law
of karma and the benefits of the retreat
beforehand, so that they can accumulate the most
merit possible. This will
ensure their academic results
in the coming year are excellent,
and with a mindful and contemplative attitude, we continue to
encourage our esteemed parents to participate in and fulfill their duties at these
retreats.
[Music]